# Introduction

## The value of a comparative look into national AI strategies

Artificial intelligence will dramatically affect every aspect of human
life, changing how we process, understand and analyze information. Along
the way it will make industries and jobs obsolete, change others and
form new ones all together. As a consequence leadership in AI, more than
any other emerging technology, will hold economic, political, and
military power in the 21st century.

Between 2017 and 2020, more than 50 countries which together represent
90% of the world's GDP have raced to release their national AI
strategies.[^1] While the effects of frontier technologies often spill
over national borders, innovation policy is still largely organized on a
national level given the unique role of governments in implementing
policy instruments, as highlighted by Edler and Fagerbergtik in their
2017 paper on innovation policy.[^2]

AI as a general purpose technology has the potential to form new
technological paths across various industries e.g. healthcare, defense,
agriculture, transport and of course information technology. However, at
the same time AI adoption has the potential to bring about unintended
consequences or threats, as emphasized by Djeffal in his 2020 paper on
the role of AI governance.[^3] As a consequence of the wide reaching
effects AI will have, researching how different governments approach and
assess AI as a strategic technology, will also reflect on how they
approach their national, socio-political and economic objectives in
general.

A comparative examination of AI strategies enacted by nation states or
supranational blocs can therefore offer insights reflecting the
national-innovative systems framework analyzed by scholars such as
Freeman[^4], which explores the role of governments in diffusing
innovation, supporting firm-level innovation, and rectifying systematic
barriers in their respective socio-economic conditions.

This project aims to present a qualitative comparison of AI strategies
launched by China, the European Union, Japan, Mexico and the United
Kingdom. The comparison framework features six sections. In each
section, an introductory comparative text offers a high-level overview,
followed by research summaries of the respective section in the case of
each country / region upon selection.

As a whole, the high-level analysis in this project explores which AI
objectives the governments prioritize, what strategic milestones or
policy instruments they set, what types of governance and participatory
frameworks they lean towards, and through what types of AI use cases
they are already reshaping public lives. As AI policies sit at the core
intersection of technology and politics, the analysis presented in this
project may help us better forecast their future socio-technological
realities prospectively.

**Contributions**

The research summaries for all six sections of each country / region,
built upon information sourced from respective AI strategies, policy
documents, data protection laws, use cases and relevant reports, were
written by:

- Carolina Rieder (Mexico)
- Yusuf Furkan Fidan (United Kingdom)
- Ka Man Ng (China, Japan)
- Simeon Kechagias (European Union)

In addition, the comparative overviews introducing each section were
written by:

- National AI Strategy (all)
- Overall Approach (Ka Man Ng)
- Strategic Goals and Targets (Carolina Rieder)
- Role of the Public and Private Sector (Simeon Kechagias)
- Use Cases / Examples (Carolina Rieder)
- AI regulation (Yusuf Furkan Fidan)

Web design and implementation by:
- Yusuf Furkan Fidan

[^1]: "50 National AI Strategies", 2019, HolonIQ, [[https://www.holoniq.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/HolonIQ-2020-AI-Strategy-Landscape.pdf]{.ul}](https://www.holoniq.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/HolonIQ-2020-AI-Strategy-Landscape.pdf) 

[^2]: Edler, J & Fagerberg, J. "Innovation Policy: What, Why, and How." 2017, *Oxford Review of Economic Policy* 33(1): 2--23.  [[https://doi.org/10.1093/oxrep/grx001]{.ul}](https://doi.org/10.1093/oxrep/grx001)

[^3]: Djeffal, C. "Artificial Intelligence and Public Governance: Normative Guidelines for Artificial Intelligence in Government and Public Administration", 2020, In T. Wischmeyer & T. Rademacher (Eds.), *Regulating Artificial Intelligence*, pp. 277-293. Springer International Publishing.  [[https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-32361-5_12]{.ul}](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-32361-5_12)

[^4]: Freeman, C. "The 'National System of Innovation' in historical perspective", 1995, *Cambridge Journal of Economics*: 5--24.  [[https://doi.org/10.1093%2Foxfordjournals.cje.a035309]{.ul}](https://doi.org/10.1093%2Foxfordjournals.cje.a035309)
