### (Why) The value of a comparative look into national AI strategies:

Between 2017 and 2020, at least 50 countries which together altogether represent 90% of the world’s GDP have raced to release their national AI strategies. While the effects of frontier technologies often spill over national borders nowadays, public innovation policy is still largely organized nationally (Edler & Fagerbergtik, 2017). A comparative examination of AI strategies enacted by nation states or supranational blocs can offer insights beyond a pure study of national-innovative systems (Freeman, 1987), which mainly focuses on how different governments aim to create and diffuse innovation in their socio-economic contexts.

Considering AI as a general purpose technology (Djeffal, 2019) that can form new technological paths across healthcare, defense, agriculture, transport, information sectors while also potentially bringing unintended consequences or threats, how different governments approach AI as a strategic innovation capacity also reflects their national objectives in economic and political sense. 

A comparison of which AI objectives they prioritize, what strategic milestones or policy instruments they set, what types of governance and participatory frameworks they lean towards, and through what types of AI use case they are already reshaping public lives, is therefore a highly relevant topic at the core intersection of technology and politics, one that may help us better forecast their future socio-technological realities prospectively. 


### On how different regions/countries are approaching their AI Strategy
Everything points to the existence of more than one (AI Strategy) model: in parts of Asia, States control how these technologies are designed and deployed. In North America a laissez-faire approach focuses on how the private sector develops and uses AI, with minimum involvement from the State. In Europe it is taking the shape of a mixed approach, focused mainly on a strong regulatory framework enforced by the State, and implemented through big techs and SMEs. In Latin America, same as in Africa and South East Asia, this is still an open question. Countries in these regions have to decide whether they will lead or fall into an umbrella of others, and in that case if they are forced to follow with no or minimum voice on how AI will transform their governments and societies. 

### Why we need AI Strategies
AI is used in many of our daily lives activities like mobility, retail, hospitality and will increasingly be used in areas such as social programs, security and finance. Along with concrete uses of these technologies there are relevant questions that remain to 
