The broad visions of these national AI strategies can facilitate an understanding on how different governments perceive the vast potential of AI in supporting their respective ambitions. A high-level comparison helps indicate whether governments perceive AI as mainly a tool of economic competitiveness or also for social development, if they envision AI as a key enabler of their long-term national goals, and if they have considered the holistic range of issues surrounding AI utilization.

In general, all five strategies feature an ambition to be a world leader in AI, though only China has specified a clear timeframe. China, Japan and Mexico envision the use of AI in both economic and social contexts, while the UK focuses on an economic view. Ecosystem-wise, China, Japan and the EU all elaborate on the role of AI regulations in mitigating related risks.

-------

### From all-encompassing to sectoral-focused:
Putting the five strategies on a spectrum, China’s AI strategy appears to be the most comprehensive, encompassing a broad range of economic and socio-political elements from domestic industry, international competition to social governance, with clearly-defined and quantified visions such as becoming the world leader in AI by 2030 which also shapes its global norms. 

In comparison, the AI strategies of Japan and Mexico, while also centering industry competitiveness and aspiring to be global AI leaders, convey a more social perspective more closely rooted in their domestic cross-sectoral needs. 

Both Japan and Mexico envision AI as a digitalization pathway that helps resolve their socio-economic challenges, e.g. advancing healthcare and agriculture in Japan to tackle aging population and rural deterioration, transforming Mexican SMEs which account for over half of Mexico’s GDP. Their shared emphasis on developing more tailored, cross-sectoral services for the public also reflects a more human-centric policy approach, when compared to China’s, which put more focus on AI as national strength. 

The U.K.’s AI strategy, on the other hand, represents the most industry-focused approach of all, focusing predominantly on AI utilization in business and is closely linked to its Industrial Strategy. While it envisions developing London to be the European capital of AI, references to AI utilization in public services such as healthcare or education are lacking when compared to others.

