Japan’s key vision of AI development emphasizes an “integrated” view and a human-centric approach. 

In its newest AI strategy (2019), while aiming to become a “frontrunner” in AI applications in the world, Japan’s overall vision of AI development is firmly embedded in a framework of solving its top socio-economic and environmental issues, such as aging population, shrinking population and deterioration of infrastructure, in a way that helps propel the country toward realising its “Society 5.0” vision while also contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. 

Its integrated view of AI development stresses upon the linkage of technological development and social infrastructure as its enabling context. Japan recognises that many of its issues cannot be solved with technologies alone, but it is “necessary to coordinate technology and social mechanisms in a transformational way” in order to realize a sustainable society that incorporates diversity. The AI Strategy therefore aims to “specify the environment and measures conducive to effective future utilization of AI”.

In parallel, Japan’s AI Strategy adopts a set of "Social Principles of Human-Centric AI”, which includes (i) Dignity (a society in which human dignity is respected);  (ii) Diversity and Inclusion (a society in which people with diverse backgrounds can pursue their own well-being), and (iii) Sustainability (a sustainable society). Within this overarching framework, the strategy builds upon its previously more industry-focused version announced in 2017, and presents an integrated AI policy package that encompasses educational reform, R&D and social implementation with the vision to be more industrially competitive, and more effective in solving challenges facing Japan and the world. 

Meanwhile, while Japan recognizes that it does not yet possess “adequate competitiveness” amid the battle for AI supremacy notably among companies based in the US and China, the strategy also notes that given the scope of AI applications is so wide and competition in areas such as data collection has just begun, the “decisive contest is yet to come” on a global level, and calls for Japan to open up opportunities for the future by taking immediate, concerted actions on AI development.

