# Strategic Goals and Targets

Artificial intelligencecan be seen as a new industry on its own, but at the same time it's also transforming business models across many sectors.From helping doctors diagnose medical conditions more effectively to allowing people to communicate across the globe using instantaneous speech recognition and translation software, vast datasets allow AI to identify better ways of doing complex tasks

In order for governments to make the best out of these opportunities, it is essential for them to set strategic goals within their AI strategy, envisioning where they want to lead their country to. Strategic goals are fundamental as they drive priority setting, resource allocation, capability requirements and budgeting activities, which are essential for countries to advance their key vision.

## Global leaders and welfare of citizens

When examining the strategic goals of the five strategies, it becomes clear that China has the potential of becoming the global AI leader it envisions itself to be. Not only do they have an extensive three-phase plan on the development of AI within their country for the next decade, but they also managed to set clear strategic goals in a defined timeframe.. Their key target is to become the "major artificial intelligence innovation center of the world", having an AI industry worth 1 trillion yuan and its related industries worth 10 trillion yuan by 2030.

On the other hand we also have Japan and the UK envisioning themselves to become global AI leaders. Japan in comparison to China, does not have a timed plan, but rather outlines four strategic goals that reflect their integrated view of connecting AI development with their social mechanisms. Similarly, the UK is focusing on five priority areas, which they call the "five foundations of productivity", each having separate goals but matching their vision of being at the forefront of the artificial intelligence and data revolution. The European Union similarly wants to develop an AI ecosystem that brings the benefits of the technology to the whole of European society and economy. However, they do not seek to become explicitly a global leader in AI but rather place themselves ahead of technological developments, while ensuring to embed it's values throughout the development and implementation of AI made in Europe.

Mexico, has a three-phase plan on how they want to set the foundations for their AI vision. Their strategic goals are much more focused on providing the right environment such as the development of an inclusive governance framework, the identification of uses and needs of AI in industry, supporting their AI leadership ambition in international forums.. In comparison to the strategic goals of the other regions and countries, it lacks concrete goals regarding the private sector and the benefits that will be assured to the citizens.
