# China

China's "New Generation of Artificial Intelligence Development Plan"[^34] (AIDP) outlined a three-phase plan in AI development, each step with its strategic goals and timeframe. The first step: make sure China's overall AI technology is in line with its advanced competitors by 2020. This goal is further elaborated in concrete targets, such as making key progress in areas including large-scale data intelligence, autonomous intelligence systems and core devices, and being an early standard-setter on the global AI stage by building AI ethics norms, policies and regulations of some areas. The scale of China's AI core industry should be worth more than 150 billion yuan.

The second step: achieve a major breakthrough in AI basic theory, and becoming a world-leader in certain AI applications by 2025. By this point, AI should be the "main driving force" of China\'s industrial upgrading and economic transformation, its construction of an AI society and developed into the global high-end value chain ranging from manufacturing, medical care, agriculture, to national defense construction. The scale of China's AI core industry should reach more than 400 billion yuan.

The third step: become the "major artificial intelligence innovation center of the world" by 2030, with an AI industry worth 1 trillion yuan and its related industries worth 10 trillion yuan. By this stage, China expects to "occupy the commanding heights of AI technology" on a global level, to "expand widely and deeply" the use of AI in production, social governance, national defense construction and all aspects, including forming the complete industrial chain. Remarkable results are expected to be achieved in the development of an intelligent economy and intelligent society, which will help bring China into "the forefront of the innovative countries and economic powers".

[^34]: "New Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan", July 20, 2017, State Council, People's Republic of China.  [[http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2017-07/20/content_5211996.htm]{.ul}](http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2017-07/20/content_5211996.htm)
