# Roles of the Public and Private Sector

Across the globe governments are acknowledging that the widespread adoption of AI and automation will depend on the cooperation between the public and private sector. However, which roles the respective sectors are taking differ across various countries. The following chapter will first review the role of the government and the private sector in China, Japan, Mexico and Europe to then discuss similarities and differences.  

It doesn't come as a surprise that the Chinese government takes a central role in developing and coordinating the AI efforts in the country. In line with its overall economic approach the Chinese approach reflects a combination of central government and private sector participation in the development of AI technology. However, in contrast to other government's collaboration with the private sector, China's approach to select four companies to lead the development of different areas of AI is a relatively uncommon approach that also underpins the leading roles these companies already take in different AI fields.

Japan's approach to AI governance is defined by the government taking the role of a coordinator that is responsible for establishing and maintaining the right environment for private sector innovation to take place. At the same time, the government is seen as one of the best areas to deploy innovation driven by AI as Japan has increasingly facing problems due to the delay in the digitalization of public services.

The development of Mexico's AI efforts is largely driven by the public sector and inherently a bottom-up movement. Therefore, rather than relying on a government with changing priorities the Mexican strategy sets out to establish an independent body to oversee the implementation of the strategy as central. Consequently, the role of the government is primarily to pave the way for the establishment of the independent body.  However, at the same time the strategy acknowledges the importance of the government in promoting Mexico as a leader in the AI space.

In Europe, the European Commission is focused on setting the right playing field for the development of AI. Through a balance between regulation and the free market the EU hopes to harness and attract the best talent and provide the optimal environment for the development of AI in the private sector. In the United Kingdom, the government is mainly seen as a coordination that should drive collaborations within the private sector. Regulation is seen as secondary to providing direct investments but also making the UK AI sector attractive to private investors.
