The role of the government in the creation/implementation of the AI Strategy may differ significantly between Mexico and other countries as the willingness to push forward the topic of AI in the country rather comes from the civil society, academics and the private sector.
In spring 2018 Mexico had a change of administration, and much of the work from the government around digital took a halt with a shift in policy priorities. As such many interviewees that took part in the creation of the national AI Strategy stressed the importance of creating an independent body to oversee the implementation and coordination of both digital and AI policies to ensure continuity. 
According to the published strategy, following were given as recommendations regarding the role the government should take in order to ensure the successful implementation and usage of the AI strategy:
First the government should set a clear strategic direction. A cross-cutting, central government department should own the National AI Strategy - “Office of AI” and an official to lead on AI should be appointed.
As AI is a cross-cutting technology and touches on almost every department in government, either through government support, promotion or in delivery, Emergent Technology Innovation  teams should be appointed in selected Ministries 
Governments have enormous power to change the national conversation and direct attention. The Mexican Goverment should harness this power to champion Mexico as a strategic place to build and deploy AI technology through e.g. supporting the creation of an AI chamber of commerce, actively attracting the best talent to return or come to work in Mexico and ensuring that stories of successful Mexican AI deployments are shared internationally 
Develop guidelines for smart AI procurement  by
Talking to the emergent Mexican AI sector to  foster mutual understanding and stimulate ideas on how AI could help the government provide better services for less. 
Take a portfolio approach to develop and procure  AI products and services in government. 

