Striking a balance between regulation and free market, focused on investment and regulation e.g. setting the right playing field for the development of AI in Europe.
The Commission is increasing its annual investments in AI by 70% under the research and innovation programme Horizon 2020 in order to: (1) connect and strengthen AI research centres across Europe; (2) support the development of an "AI-on-demand platform" that provides access to relevant AI resources in the EU for all users; (3) support the development of AI applications in key sectors.
However, this is only a small proportion of total investments, many of which come from Member States and the private sector. The Commission's actions act as the glue linking the individual efforts, with an aim to make a collective solid investment. The expected impact of such an investment is much greater than the sum of its parts. To this end, more actions are foreseen to: (1) increase the deployment and uptake of AI and robotics made in Europe by creating world reference large scale testing and experimentation facilities in key strategic sectors and technologies (agri-food, healthcare, manufacturing, smart cities and edge AI); (2) build on Public Private Partnerships; (3) accelerate public sector AI adoption by supporting public procurement of AI-based systems and helping to transform public procurement processes themselves.
The European AI Strategy and the Coordinated Plan put forward trust as a prerequisite to ensure a human-centric approach to AI. In April 2019, the Commission published a Communication on "Building Trust in Human-Centric Artificial Intelligence”, highlighting the key requirements and concept of trustworthy AI, as introduced by the High-Level Expert Group on AI (AI HLEG) in their Ethics Guidelines for Trustworthy AI. These two concepts along with the four deliverables presented by the 52 experts in their two years of mandate have strongly affected the Commission’s vision on AI , as outlined in the most recent AI White Paper.
Next policy and regulatory steps on AI
From 19 February to 14 June 2020, the AI White Paper underwent an open, public consultation process to collect stakeholders’ views on the upcoming policy and regulatory steps on AI.
The consultation attracted 1215 contributions, provided by European citizens, Member States and relevant stakeholders, such as civil society, industry and academics. While 84% of the contributions came from the EU’s 27 Member States, additional answers came from all over the world, including the UK, the US, Switzerland, Norway, Japan, India, Turkey and China.
Contributions submitted through the online survey are available here. A report summarising the quantitative results of the survey is also available here. Following an in depth analysis of the consultation results as well as a detailed impact assessment, the Commission will propose a horizontal regulatory proposal within the first quarter of 2021. It will aim to safeguard fundamental EU values and rights and user safety by subjecting high-risk AI systems to mandatory requirements related to their trustworthiness. For example, regarding human oversight and providing clear information on the capabilities and limitations of  AI systems.

