In Japan’s 2019 AI Strategy, hopeful use cases were identified from priority areas such as healthcare, agriculture, disaster resilience and transportation. While some remain as work in progress and are closely linked to development in robotics (e.g. developing fire-fighting robots in special disasters), the following are two AI use cases for public welfare that have already been announced or implemented (since Japan released its first AI strategy in 2017):

Setting up 10 “AI hospitals” by 2022: In 2018, the Japanese government announced it would invest more than 10 billion yen ($100 million) to set up 10 hospitals enhanced by AI. The overall purpose is to ease shortage of medical staff amid a rapidly aging population, lower medical expenses and free up more time for doctors to focus on patients. Teaming up with business and academia, these model hospitals are expected to use AI in all tasks, from updating patient records to assisting with diagnosis, analyzing blood tests, vitals, electrocardiography, DNA parsing and imaging.


AI match-matching: In 2020, Japan’s Cabinet Office announced it’s investing 2 billion yen ($19.2 million) to subsidise local governments already running or starting projects that use AI to pair people up. The initiative aims to reverse Japan’s fertility rate, which fell to its record low in 2019. These AI matchmaking projects are expected to perform more sophisticated analysis of dating criteria submitted by citizens, such as income, age, hobbies, and produce more exact matches compared to traditional human-run matchmaking service. Around half of Japan’s 47 prefectures already offer matchmaking services and some of them have already introduced AI systems, according to the Cabinet Office.
