There are various examples of where AI is currently being used in Mexico to improve public services and to make citizen’s lives better, however, most of the AI Use Cases in Mexico are led and implemented by the private sector rather than by the government. 
 
The following are two examples of AI initiatives that are being directly used at the governmental level:

AI for better health public services: misalud, Ministry of Health :
Misalud is a new health platform that enables patients to ask questions and receive advice through their cell phone. It was launched in June 2017 as a result of the government’s Prospera digital pilot and focuses on maternal health. Beneficiaries of misalud receive SMS messages with advice to help improve their health and that of their babies. To date, more than 5,000 women have exchanged more than one million SMS messages through the platform. The CEDN is supporting the initiative to develop chatbots for government communication as a ‘plug and play’ innovation. 
AI to detect fraudulent taxpayer operations: Tax Administration Service, Ministry of Finance and Public Credit:
The Tax Administration Service has been trialling AI algorithms to detect companies that are conducting fraudulent operations, by identifying pattern disruptions in data analysed using R Studio, Python Language, and DBs in-memory Redis. Within three months of a six month pilot scheme, 1200 fraudulent companies were detected and 3500 fraudulent transactions identified. The identification and analysis of these irregular activities would have taken an estimated 18 months of work without the use of AI. 
