Other important AI government actions included the publication of two key documents related to the responsible and ethical development and use of AI (AI General Principles & a Risk Assessment Tool for the use of autonomous systems). Both were opened for public participation in their development. 
The development of the mexican AI Strategy was (and still continues to be) a bottom-up approach. The process of developing the national AI Strategy was chaired by the organization C Minds, and  six further working groups were established regarding all the key topics mentioned in the strategy (Ethics, Data, R&D…). Key Mexican institutions from all sectors helped lead each working group including the Mexican Society of AI, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economy, the Telecommunications Federal Institute, Plenum Group, National University of Mexico, the National Mathematics Institute, among others, bringing their expertise and different points of view into the efforts. 
Another example of the necessity of bringing different perspectives in, and the favoring of a bottom-up approach, is the multi-stakeholder national coalition named ‘IA2030.mx’ which is formed by institutions from the industry, civil society, academy and government.
Its objective is to coordinate efforts, build a single voice around AI and promote continued action and support for the topic. What started as the collaboration of 10 institutions grew to the participation of more than 110 on a national scale. One of the first actions of the coalition was launching a national consultation on AI, where more than 1,500 people shared their perspectives. 
